# project-amos
Project AMOS: A Movable and Mobile Phone-Operated Sysmograph and Tsunamimeter


This study focuses in developing the Project AMOS: A Movable and Mobile-Phone Operated Seismograph with Tsunamimeter which is an IoT Based device consist of two single board computer (SBC), the Raspberry Pi 3 Model B and Raspberry Pi Zero W, and sensor modules that is able to measure the earthquake and detect a tsunami in a certain place. The device is powered by AC and DC supply which capable of using the electricity. Applied Research method will be use in the process of conceptualization of device development and testing. Data gathered from an interview with the technical staff of the seismology division of PHIVOLCS (Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology. Descriptive analytics or data mining will be use since raw data are from multiple sources to give valuable insights in the past and is typically use a real-time dashboard. The two SBC’s will be used for transmission of data directly to the cloud storage that displays the capture readings from the sensors installed. A camera will also be used for the real time monitoring of the behavior of the sea for the possibility of a tsunami. The main purpose of this study is to help increase the awareness among residents of a certain place that will help to establish protection from the possible effects of the earthquake and tsunami. Also this study aims to develop a monitoring and automated system that can be access through end devices such as mobile phone and desktop computers, while taking advantages in the sensor technology and image processing to help people’s awareness inside a community.
